---
layout: post
title: Walking and Breathing
---
So I finally got our little player character all rigged up and set up the basic animations (walking and idle).
Still debating whether or not he should be able to jump. Technically there's no gameplay reason for why he
should, it would mostly be for feel, something to make it feel a little more exploratory. I'm not planning any
platforming elements, after all, its just a point and click adventure. On the other hand it could be really 
fun to say, jump on his bed or various other objects around the house.

Anyway the actual rigging process was really straight forward and fairly easy. Unity reads PSB files intuitively 
so getting him in the game with his layers aligned properly was as easy as dragging and clicking. They've also 
put in their own bone tool which is very straight forward, and a weight painting system. Still debating how 
flexible the tail should be (Do I go for realistic cat or super cartoony and simple?) but I like the preliminary 
results. I think his tale is actually my favorite part of the animations I've put together so far. The walk needs
some help, a few more frames to smooth things out I think, but I'm really pleased with the idle. 

I need to work in some other things too, of course. For instance if you smack him with one of the objects you 
can pick up I want his body to react in a semi realistic way, and I want to add some variation to the idle,
a couple of different actions that happen at random. Anyway I think it is a good start. He still looks a little
derp but I find him cute. 

Anyway I'm thinking about recording my actual working process but not sure if its worth the time(Would anyone 
even watch? Maybe?), although I love thought of making videos that would be helpful to other wannabe indie
developers. That's mostly how I've taught myself, after all. We'll see. Any way I recorded his first real
animated steps and you can check it out on my Twitter page.

[Check out a quick video on my twitter page](https://twitter.com/ebs1942/status/133253496405721602?s=19)
