My day job and the holidays have had me too busy recently to have much to report on progress with the game but, 
as is the case every year, something about the weather and the mood in the aid has me feeling nostalgic and I
have always found that writing things down is the best way to organize my thoughts and feelings. 

I didn't get very many Christmases with my parents. In fact, in a sort of morbidly interesting way they are
divided straight down the middle; 8 with my mother, 8 with my father, for my mother lost custody of me when I
was eight years old and my father passed away when I was sixteen. I'm sure he was there for my first 3 as well
but I do not remember them or have any way to prove it, other than old records showing their divorce was not
finalized until I was four. I don't know how long they were seperated before that happened but surely there 
was at least one year where we were together as a whole, happy family. It is hard sometimes not to think that
my birth caused everything to go to shit. 

I don't remember much about Christmas with mom, but I know that we were poor and more often than not, freezing.
I also know that I was blissfully happy in spite of those things. We had a white tree and she had an asortment
of Santa statues that she arranged on the mantle every year. There weren't many presents, in fact I remember 
only one (A stuffed Simba I picked out myself.), and it was always, ALWAYS cold. The house we lived in was 
probably beautiful once, and has been made to be beautiful since, but when we lived there it was falling apart.
It either didn't have central heat and air or it was broken. We had a single electric heater in front of the 
fireplace and we would sleep in front of it under all our blankets together, my sister, mother and I, and I didn't 
know at the time that that was unusual. 

I'm sure now that my father probably agonized over the way we were living but I didn't know it then. i didn't even 
know him, really. He only had weekend visitations and I would usually cry to be taken back to my mother. I was
a strange child anyway, probably now a days someone would have told them I was on the spectrum albeit high functioning; 
In school I never spoke, I was very paticular about who touched me and numerous other odd habits I won't get into
here that as an adult I have mostly learned to hide(Although I am still easily overwhelmed by too many people, bright
lights and noises.). My father was not one of the people I was okay with, for whatever reason, at least not as an 
older child. I have pictures prooving he held me as a toddler but somewhere along the way that must ahve changed.

Anyway, my mother was Schizophrenic(Or so I was told. I've heard alternate theorys but we'll leave that for another
time) and while she did her very best and worked herself to the bone, she didn't do well in mainstream society and
I knew her to have many, many jobs. Consequently, we had very little in the way of the material. I remember it fondly,
however. It was the time in my life when I felt the most loved.

My grandmother was a prominent figure in this time. Probably we would have starved without her, sometimes. Anyway 
her religion precluded her from celebrating Christmas traditionally(She has always correctly viewed it as a Pagan 
holiday) but she loved the lights and every year she would drive us around to see them. I was barely big enough to,
craning to see out a car window over my head in a time when car seats were rarely used, but I remember being in awe
and sometimes overwhelmed by all the colors. Mostly I just found the gentle motion of the car soothing.

It was a simple way of doing things. Lights. Togetherness. One year my mother was so heart broken at not being able to
buy us gifts that she drew a bunch of fantastical drawings on old cardboard boxes (We couldn't buy paper either) and 
colored them together. I remember the occasion more than I would remember any number of toys. For a long time I held 
on to those boxes but they were eventually lost.

Christmas with Dad was bright. Overwhelming. Mountains of gifts, a stack for each kid. The first year, I thought it
was magical. Later, superficial. I don't know who was the master mind, him or my stepmother. I know they both wanted
us to be happy. 

I remember the first Christmas after my brother, technically my stepbrother but as dear to me as blood, was murdered. 
Perhaps it is rude to say it so but to say he passed away neglects everything that was taken from him and implies
something peaceful and false. Regardless, it was a bad year. It was also our first Christmas in the house that my
father and stepmother built together. A big, fine house with rooms for each of us, a huge kitchen and living area and
a plot of land. 

I loved my room. They built it with bookshelves all around the top, just for me. Because they knew books were my favorite 
thing. I didn't get much time to enjoy it.

My stepmother was gone for a long time. I don't know where, but I suspect she was with her mother. Dad filled that living 
with presents, put up a tree all by himself. That man never cared about the decorations but that year he tried so hard to
make it work. To make things good for us kids, and for her too I think. I think he thought she would come home for the 
holidays. She didn't, and I don't remember another Christmas in that house, although there might have been one. The 
following year was the ice storm that had us without power for two weeks and shortly after that we moved to Pennsylvania
to be close to my stepmother's family.

Sometimes I still dream about that house, with the bedroom my dad built just for me. We could have been really happy there.
Someday perhaps I would have inherited it, and raised my only family there. Some other family lives there now, with dreams
of their own. I try not to resent them too much, it's not their fault. But I do.

Christmas in Pennsylvania was, at least at first, like Christmas out of a movie. My stepmother had a big family and they all
gathered together for the holidays. Most of my natural family was dead and I didn't know quite what to make of so many people
in one room. I didn't have great grandparents, or aunts and uncles and cousins, at least none that cared enough to get 
together for anything short of a funeral. My dad's family had had a few picnics but none that I could remember. This was all new,
and honestly too much for me to handle, but it was beautiful in its way. If I was a normal person I would have enjoyed it a lot
I'm sure. 

They never treated me poorly, and I;m sure did their best to make me feel included, but I never quite did. Until my stepsister
finally decided to move in with us, I was the only teenager. My sister was left behind in Oklahoma. I was told it was because 
she didn't want to do her senior year in a new school but I suspect it was actually because my stepmother didn't want her around.
They were niether of them good for eachother I suppose, but I still find it cruel that the adult would not try to be the better 
person. She's dead now too, and my sister and I don't speak often so I don't think I'll ever know the truth. The cousins were all
the same age as my half brothers, 8 years younger than me. There was no where for me to fit. I probably would not have socialized 
anyway, had there been someone my age to talk to. I don't think I was capable, honestly. The two friends I had in school I had 
because for some reason they had decided they liked me and weren't put off by my seeming in ability to speak. Still, I felt
isolated.

Sometimes I feel like there must be something wrong with me. There are people I like very much and I like to hear what they have
to say but it is not very often I have something to say in return. I try and find myself unable. Sometimes I feel like a prisoner
in my own head. Writing helps. It seems sometimes to be the only way to get things out.

Christmas after my dad died was extravigant to the point of waste. My stepmother spent money just to spend it, to spite him and
the frugality he had us live under. At first, it was fun. I had saved every penny I had ever recieved or found in my piggy bank for 
as longas I could remember(And later found when I opened my first bank account I had 600 dollars, mostly in change) and had never
just bought anything I wanted. It was fun to troll around the mall and get whatever I wanted. Later I realized it was a waste. The
joy of the material is temporary and pales in comparison to hunger, or lack of electricity. Now I wish I would have said something.
I wish I would have told her to prepare for our futures, rather than spending it all on things we didn't need and sometimes outright
never used. I didn't know then that she was going to die and leave me, barely an adult, with custody of two teenagers or that a lack 
of finances was going to prevent me from giving them the life they should have had. I wish I had been smart enough to say something.

I suppose I should have been greatful. Often I resented that Christmas was full of things but she had taken so little time to get
to know my real interests that they weren't things I was interested in. Now, I think that was probably a very selfish way to look 
at it. Plenty of kids would have loved to have any toy they could get. 

I just... when you compare objects that are there just for the sake of having objects to drawings made with love, there is something 
wanting.

Honestly, I would have traded all of it for just a little of her time and affection. She was, however, prone to spending all her time
shut in her room. Usually high. 

I know now that she was trapped in a world of grief over her son but it has been very hard for me to come to terms with that.

I believe that my stepmother loved me, don't get me wrong. I just also know that that love was very conditional. It was easy to do
the wrong thing and loose favor with her. If I was not exactly who she wanted me to be doing exactly what she wanted me to do, she
would treat me as thought I was the worst person in the world and then, when she decided she was no longer angry, give me whiplash
by pretending nothing bad had ever happened. There were other things but honestly that's another story for another time. The point
is Christmas with her made me feel as though Christmas was a very shallow occasion.

After she died, my stepsister and I did our very best to give the boys a good Christmas, although I'm sure we often failed. We couldn't
afford the extravigance they were used to for sure. I worked 12 hour shifts, sometimes more, and could never afford to keep up with all
our expenses. It didn't help that I was basically supporting my stepsister, her children, and my two brothers with little help but that
too is a story for another time. It was, however, often very fun. We would do stupid things, like go to Denny's in new bath robes and have
lightsaber battles. I tried very hard to get to know them and their preferences, and to get them gifts I felt reflected them. I don't
know if they ever noticed. This was perhaps more selfishness on my part, doing something that I know would have meant the world to me
without considering if it would have meant the world to them. We cannot always assume that others share our values. 

They've grown and are now somewhat estranged. It makes me sad but also... for the first time in my life I am free to be myself. I have no 
adult siblings using me for my resources. I have left over financial burdens from the times when they did but the only thing I have to
worry about is myself and the family I am creating with my wife. I am sad not to see them for the holidays but I hope someday they will
come back to me. They treated me poorly but I was never as good as I should have been either. I was too young for so much responsibility
but I know I should have done more. I know I should have done things differently. 

Now I spend Christmas with my wife's family. Technically they're her adopted family(Not literally only in the sense that ehy choose eachother) 
but I have never in my life seen such love. They ARE her family, and mine too, in every aspect except blood. They're the first people in a very 
long time that I am sure love me unconditionally. They spoil us and sometimes I feel guilty but I know that I shouldn't because they tell me so.
They're the first people since my mother and grandmother to love me for the fact that I am me, and not for what I have to offer in return. 

I am so very, very happy.



